---
layout: strategy
title: Self Sustainging Units
team: Martina Benetollo, Yordanos Bekele & Magnus Heilmann
video: https://vimeo.com/383249880
---

#### Concept

“Self-sustaining units” is an urban planning approach aiming at a flexible and adaptable model for urban development. Urbanisation is understood as an organic process of growth, so the outcome is not an urban master plan but rather a selfadaptive development strategy that works with time. This strategy gives space to the demands of its users and connects them to the chances and challenges of the respective area. The smallest urban entities, so-called units, can adapt their shape and function according to different influences, and they function on all scales - on their own, in clusters, in villages, towns or cities.

#### The Background
… that serves as starting point for the project is the need to develop an urban planning approach that aims to mitigate the negative influences of rapid population growth, land scarcity and environmental damage. Metabolic principles for the provision and resource management of food, water and energy form the baseline of this project. It seeks to integrate the existing inhabited environment including the people, the factor of time and gradual development and the dynamic interrelations between material cycles and their surroundings into a single concept. For the area of Wurer in the Gurage region in central Ethiopia, this means that the low-density community organisation in cell structures has to evolve. This concept is based on sensitive and reasonable consideration of these existing spatial and social structures, and connects their underlying ideas with the goal of achieving self-sufficiency. However, the strong sense of community shall not be lost, on the contrary, it will be a central planning approach to the project. The existing polycentric structure gives the hint as to how both public services and materials can be reasonably distributed from small to big-scale level. Traditionally, the region makes use of the false banana tree (enset). This crop is a staple element of the local diet, and a crucial element for achieving food autonomy, as it reduces the land demand for food provision to a small fraction compared to meator cereal-based diet.

#### The Planning strategy
… introduces units of several households, which are self-sustained regarding access to energy, water and food. The service stations in each unit provide sustainable low-tech small-scale resource management. Agricultural area is available close to the units in so-called agro-units, providing further services such as fermenting and processing facilities, shared tools and knowledge. With urban growth, the units form denser clusters, for which advanced resource management becomes economic. A central system of waste collection and treatment and the access to centrally sourced drinking water is added in upgraded service stations. On the city scale, public services and amenities are introduced once the urban development reached a certain threshold.

The model is very flexible in its development – the units can be used for multiple functions and change their layout accordingly. Simultaneously, the usage of surrounding units and even the urban layout can adapt to the ever changing circumstances. The people´s demand for urban development thrives the unit establishment, and at every moment, the basic needs of the people are fulfilled – even with stagnant urban growth. This means that there can be e.g. outside investors or a community of few families that drive urban development. Societal shifts that come with a more urban lifestyle and technical advancement thereby have a direct impact on the city, and the city is always perfectly adapted to the demand and actual use of the inhabitants. 

The parametric design connects a number of steps, most of which are parameters within a Grasshopper definition. Some of these steps, however, are man-driven decision. The urban planner still has significant influence on the design process for the urban layout, defining some of the inputs and giving predictions as to how the urban society develops in the modelling process. The resulting land use plan is adaptable and reactive to potential changes in the urban sphere.